) Start in the leftmost column
2) If all queens are placed
    return true
3) Try all rows in the current column. 
   Do following for every tried row.
    a) If the queen can be placed safely in this row 
       then mark this [row, column] as part of the 
       solution and recursively check if placing
       queen here leads to a solution.
    b) If placing the queen in [row, column] leads to
       a solution then return true.
    c) If placing queen doesn't lead to a solution then
       unmark this [row, column] (Backtrack) and go to 
       step (a) to try other rows.
4) If all rows have been tried and nothing worked,
   return false to trigger backtracking.

Algorithms are the methodical sequence of steps which are defined to solve complex problems.

In this article, we will see the difference between two such algorithms which are backtracking and branch and bound technique. 

Before getting into the differences, lets first understand each of these algorithms. 

Backtracking: Backtracking is a general algorithm for finding all the solutions to some computational problems, notably constraint satisfaction problems, that incrementally builds possible candidates to the solutions and abandons a candidate as soon as it determines that the candidate cannot possibly be completed to finally become a valid solution. It is an algorithmic-technique for solving problems recursively by trying to build a solution incrementally, one piece at a time, removing those solutions that fail to satisfy the constraints of the problem at any point of time (by time, here, is referred to the time elapsed till reaching any level of the search tree). 

Branch and Bound: Branch and bound is an algorithm design paradigm for discrete and combinatoric optimisation problems, as well as mathematical optimisation. A branch-and-bound algorithm consists of a systematic enumeration of candidate solutions. That is, the set of candidate solutions is thought of as forming a rooted tree with the full set at the root. The algorithm explores branches of this tree, which represent the subsets of the solution set. Before enumerating the candidate solutions of a branch, the branch is checked against upper and lower estimated bounds on the optimal solution and is discarded if it cannot produce a better solution than the best one found so far by the algorithm. 

